---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UROP Step-By-Step Mathematics Proposal
date: 2015-09-01
labels:
  - Teaching Software
---

Step-by-Step Mathematics App


Inquiry Statement:
The “Step-by-Step Mathematics App”, is a new way of looking at designing learning applications for mathematics. Applications currently available for teaching mathematics and science don’t necessarily focus on the process. Understanding the process and making connections between the real world and the process of mathematics is crucial to comprehension. All too often, in teaching, a question is asked and the student is told if they are wrong or not. Think of all the X’s on every test you've ever taken, generally teachers just don't have the time or resources to explain  the mistake.This proposal is to create an application that can show how mathematics happens in the real world and help students make the connections that are crucial to real understanding. 


Objectives and Methods:
The objective of this app is work with teachers to develop a learning application that will be able to run on both mobile and desktop. Using the the Hawaii Common Core Mathematics Standards for Kindergarten and 1st grade as guidelines, the app will ensure that knowledge learned is relevant and up to date. The application will show how to solve the math problem step by step,instead of just asking a question and checking the answer. By showing each step of problem solving and providing support and feedback along the way, this application will ensure students make all of the connections that are critical to complete understanding. The application will be developed through a three phase process; planning, execution, and evaluation.
During the planning process the HCC Mathematics Standards will be broken down into individual lessons. A design for each lesson will be created, and from that design a paper prototype will be made that will show how every part of the lesson is run. Next after the prototype is created, we will obtain feedback teachers and make sure that the lesson is up to proper standards and methods of teaching. Lastly any suggestions will be incorporated into a new prototype before the lesson is moved to the next stage. 
During execution the paper prototype lesson will be developed into a scene that will become part of the total application. Each lesson will have an introduction to the mechanics for the lesson. This will allow the student a chance to see how the application works. Lastly an evaluation scene will be programed; this scene checks the student's input vs the actual answer. Here the lesson can show the individual steps that need to be taken to get to the correct answer, possibly highlighting where error may have taken place. 
The final step will be the evaluation of each lesson. During this process we will sit down with students and evaluate the effectiveness of the application. First we will test the students for their prior knowledge and figure out where they struggled the most. Then we will have the students sit with the lessons for an hour and observe. This is where the developers can observe what works and what doesn’t, we will make notes and come up with appropriate solutions. Once these solutions have been developed, we will incorporate solutions into each lesson so that our application will have the highest possible quality. By including and working with teachers and students throughout both the planning and testing phases, we hope to ensure the critical steps of problem solving are included in the app. Additionally, by using the HCC Standards each lessons will have clear objectives that can be evaluated at each step of learning. 
	There are a number of benefits with respect to this proposed application. First there aren’t any current mobile applications based on the Federal Common Core Standards, putting this proposal in a unique position of being the first to apply them. Additionally by designing with respect to showing the process, this application will allow better understanding by students by allowing them to see the steps of problem solving.  Additionally, the application will be able to apply all three learning types; kinesthetic, visual, and auditory. We will be able to deliver an application that creates a kinesthetic and interactive playground for each lesson, and allow the student to play with the material so that they can make connections at their own pace. The application will additionally provide both both visual and auditory feedback throughout every step of problem solving, allowing for better retention. With the benefits of using the CC Standards to ensure quality, and designing with the learning process as the focus, this proposal will be steps ahead of any other similar teaching application. 


Applicant’s Role:
	Jarrod Lofy, will take the role of team leader, he will be primarily in charge of team member communication, planning each lesson and evaluating each lesson's effectiveness. He will make sure that the prototypes are robust enough so that the programmers and artist will be able to start the execution phase knowing exactly what to do. He will be coordinating with team members to ensure that each lesson is up to our defined standards
Derek Chan and Christopher Delp, will take the role of programmers, during the execution phase they will be implementing the paper prototypes created in the planning phase. They will implement each lesson in the app as they are designed based on the paper prototypes. They will also be running tests on the app with the addition of each lesson to ensure that the app is free from defects overall.
Shonelle Swarens, will be the projects artist, as she is capable in both Art and Computer Science she has a good understanding of how art will be used in the application. This knowledge allows her to make sure that each lesson will be engaging for students, and that the overall design of the application is appealing. She is responsible for making sure my graphics will work properly. After learning the process, she will need collaborate with the group to sketch out and create the graphics. Additionally she will be tasked with recording all of the sounds for the application.
